Hi within this section we're going to learn about object oriented programming.
So this is a very important concept and we're going to deep dive into it.
First of all we're going to start with classes.
Classes are so important and we have seen that before right.
So we have worked with classes in our real controller rehabbing class.
And basically we write everything in our class.
Right.
So classes actually have functions have rebels have events inside of them and we're going to see what
are those in this lecture.
And we're going to see what is an object oriented programming.
So first of all what are some elements inside of classes.
We have properties we have some variables like age like name so we can call these attributes or properties.
And this defines some attributes some options that our classes can have like we can have a musician
class and we're going to have this in a few lecture and we will have some properties inside of that
musician class.
So if we can create an object from that class we can call this an object or an instance.
Okay.
And this instance or this object can have properties.
So this object for example a musician can have an H.
You can have a name so we can actually create more than one object and we can assign different ages
different names to these each object.
So this is not different than creating a string object or any integer object.
Okay.
But this time we're going to create create our own classes in which we define own properties own values
so properties are basically variables that we set.
So this is easy.
And also we can how actions the inside of classes as well.
So we can have a function to make our musicians sing for example.
So classes are the bigger part.
OK.
So classes are the biggest part actually making up a whole project.
So this is kind of blueprint of our projects.
And in this blueprint we can have actions so we can make our singers sing.
We can make whatever we want.
And we can how even says Wells for example defining what will happen if we resume this or defining some
other events as well.
And we're going to see a lot of examples of classes.
And if you have heard something like model in programming basically that's what we're going to do in
this section regrowing to create a model and we're going to create some instances of that model and
they will have properties actions.
So let me tell you what objectives oriented programming is in an analogy so you would understand it
better.
OK.
So what was the first programming language that has ever come out.
Each of us c and c was not an objected oriented programming language.
So it was kind of a procedural programming language.
OK.
So what is the difference between procedural and object oriented programming.
Suppose that you have an agency a software company.
OK.
This is our company and inside of this software company we have some workers we have some employees.
So in the procedural programming we have this kind of a structure.
First we tell our employee to do the design create some design follow our app build some user interfaces
and then we go to same employee as say that OK now write the code code our app and implement the design
that you have created before.
And then later on we go on and say Dad please do the marketing and business arrangement says well.
So find some investors do some app store optimization so that our app will be visible throughout the
app store and take care of everything from bottom to the top.
So this will be a procedural programming run there in object oriented programming.
We have different employees we have different classes different objects.
So first we tell take care of the design.
Okay.
And we go to another employee another class.
We say that please do the coding for us.
And then finally we say that.
Yeah.
Yep he's ready.
Please go find us some investors and take care of marketing as you might imagine these three classes
these three people can talk with each other communicate with each other but they have no idea what the
other person is doing in the real life.
So designer will not know what the programming people are doing or programming people coders will not
know what marketing people are doing.
So this is kind of synchronized between each other but they are focusing on their jobs.
So this is an example of object oriented programming.
So as you might imagine this way is much more efficient than saying please take care of everything in
one person.
We how some different classes talking with each other working with each other synchrony asleep.
But they're only focusing on their job.
So this is an analogy for understanding object oriented programming.
And of course if you're not gonna stop here we're just going to continue and we will see how to build
our own classes how to create our own objects and how to implement all of this information into real
apps as well.
So that's what we're going to do within this section.
So let's stop here and continue within the next lecture.